In this video I'll describe the NSX implementation of Natt or network address translation.
And this is going to be deployed using the NSX at.
So first off what is that.
Why do we need a network address translation.
Well essentially we're going to use that to replace one address with another.
So for example it allows inbound and outbound communication between external networks and privately
addressed virtual machines.
We may have created a private IP addressing scheme on the inside of our network but those virtual machines
may need internet access.
They may need to be accessible by machines out there in the physical network.
So if we're using private networks on the inside we have to perform nat to translate those addresses
to publicly roundtable IP addresses.
And here we see the three predefined ranges of addresses.
So if your network includes addresses like these Those are private IP addresses the 10 0.09 0 range
the 172 about 16 0 0 slash 12 range of IP addresses and $192 168 0 0 are all predefined standardized
IP address ranges that are strictly reserved for private addresses.
And this is a feature that standard it's supported by many vendors and it definitely predates NSX and
that has been around forever.
The NSX supports the source and destination that translations and we'll be taking a closer look at each
of those.
But essentially a source that is used on outgoing traffic to change a private source IP to a publicly
roundtable source IP whereas destination that is used on incoming packets to change the destination
IP.
So for example there might be traffic coming into our network destined for a privately address machine
but the sending device has used a public IP as the destination destination Nat will remove that public
IP address and replace it with our internal private IP and X also support support address translation
which allows many internal IPs to be translated to a single external address and it will use different
ports for each internal address.
So let's take a look at an example of a source NAT translation with NSX in an our diagram here we see
a few things on the left hand side we see a Virtual Machine label that V.M. want.
And that virtual machine has been assigned a private IP address of 192 not 168 not 110.
And the virtual machine is connected to a logical switch called Vienna 0 0 2 which is connected to a
distributed logical router.
And then we see our transit logical switch connecting the DLR to the NSX Hajj which gives us our north
south routing or external access.
And finally on the external network I have a server with a public IP address and my virtual machine
wants to ping the server.
But VM one has an internal IP address and that IP address is not publicly roundtable.
So that packet leaves virtual machine one bound for its default gateway and it flows through the NSX
network to the edge
when the packet arrives at the edge the NSX will perform a source not translation it will remove that
private source ip of $192 168 not 1.10 and replace it with a publicly readable IP address.
And then for that traffic to the external network.
And now that this packet has a publicly ratable source IP when that traffic arrives at that external
network and hits that server the server can send the response to that public IP address.
Now let's consider a different scenario where we're going to perform a destination that in this case
the external server on the far right meets the paying virtual machine one maybe VM one is a web server
or maybe is enough server or something that needs to be accessed by machines that are out on the internet.
VM one has an IP address that is not publicly ridable.
So how do we get this configured how do we set this up.
Well we'll go to the NSX hatch and we'll actually add a second IP address.
And by the way you need to do this with source Nat as well.
So go to the NSX hatch and we'll go to this interface that's connected to the external router and we
assign it a second IP address that's publicly roundball
and what will happen at that point is the external server will generate a packet bound for whatever
public IP address we've established on that NSX edge.
So let's say for example on the edge we configured to not to that 2.10 That's the secondary IP that
we created on the interface of the NSX such
the server will send a packet destined for that IP.
It'll route through the Internet.
It will hit that NSX edge on that IP and we will create a NAT translation basically saying if anything
arrives destined for $2.2 2.10 removed 2.2 out to about 10 and replace it with 192 168.
Not one that 10.
And now my destination has been performed.
So now the ping will flow onto the transmit logical switch hit the distributed logical router get routed
hit my virtual machine.
And now the process is complete.
So that's how the NSX does source and destination Nat.
And again it's important to keep in mind for every IP address we need to translate we're going to have
to build that translation into the NSX.
Now if you decide to do port address translation that's a little bit different.
Poor address translation is not a one to one mapping that maps many internal devices to a single external
IP.
And this means you only need one publicly readable IP address that the big benefit and what it will
do is it will assign a unique source port to every internal IP the destination port is not modified
and that's how it will track which IP addresses are being mapped to which port so that it can actually
take multiple internal IPs and translate them to a single publicly ratable IP address.
All right.
So in review the NSX performs now which allows us to establish communications between external networks
and are privately addressed virtual machines a source that is used to take the source IP address of
an outgoing packet and translate it to some publicly groundball IP address whereas destination that
is used on incoming packets and it's used to change a publically roud a bowl destination IP to the private
IP that's valid on the inside of our network.